---
id: 181
title: The Importance of Those That Walk Away
date: 2015-08-27T09:26:07+00:00
author: loganm
layout: post
guid: http://lindsaythomas.net/engl3560/?p=181
permalink: /2015/08/27/the-importance-of-those-that-walk-away/
categories:
  - Blog 1
---
In the land of Omelas, despite all outward appearances to the contrary, there are in fact those that cannot abide the horror of the few in exchange for the prosperity of the many. For these people there is no happiness to be had upon observing the dark fate that awaits those who are selected to bear great suffering for the land&#8217;s gain. With those that walk away the author appears to be harkening to those select few in our world whose innate sense of justice and recognition of right from wrong acts as the only compass that they need to determine that they must go against the grain, that they must question the realities of the world around them and come to realize that all is not right, that the suffering of the few should not be simply accepted haphazardly. Le Guim is using these people to demonstrate that there are indeed outliers actively rebelling against the system and are, in their own way, fighting for change. In the story these people simply walk away, abandoning the lives that they can no longer be content with in exchange for the different and unknown. The great activists of our time behave in just such a way as Ghandi and others all chose to walk a path of uncertainty with the hope of righting a monumental wrong, and awakening those who would continue to blindly ignore the truth. The life that awaits them will not be one of luxury, they march into a difficult future, always fighting an uphill battle to institute the change that the world around them needs so badly. This is demonstrated by Le Guin&#8217;s narrator remarking on the fact that these people march on past all that they know, to a place that is by all accounts truly unknown, a place that those living within the walls of Omelas cannot even imagine. While the narrator claims that these people march into darkness, they in fact are the ones marching toward the light of realization and action; it is those still in Omelas that live in the darkness, as they continue living their lives neglecting the truth that their happiness is built on the tears and pain of others. Those that live in Omelas continue to project outward beauty yet inside remain thoroughly corrupted, and ware beyond salvation. Their obliviousness is a recognition of all that is wrong with their world, and an acceptance of it. This is their greatest sin, their lack of want or will to do anything to change the world around them will ensure that the process of one suffering for the many will continue in perpetuity and there will be no salvation, as those who will do something about it won&#8217;t. The ones that walk away have seen the depths of the human soul and have given up on their kin, instead fleeing to start anew and perhaps learn from the horrors that they have seen.