---
id: 656
title: Final Project proposal
date: 2015-11-24T13:29:01+00:00
author: Garrett
layout: post
guid: http://lindsaythomas.net/engl3560/?p=656
permalink: /2015/11/24/656/
categories:
  - Final Project Proposal
---
For my final project, I decided to look at the way in which Wells responds (responds is a loose term her because there may not have been any discussion, but I guess all literature could be a response in some way) to the Hegelian and Marxian Dialectics. The paper will focus much more on the novel&#8217;s idea of progress than any in-depth analysis of the two historical projections. A portion of the paper, however, will certainly deal with the two ideas, but only in what they say about the idea of progress. My argument is that <span style="text-decoration: underline;">War of the Worlds</span> is a rebuttal at the core of each dialectic. Regardless of the direction of each dialectic, they each require a fundamental belief in some teleology&#8211;a belief that the novel does not ascribe to. Well&#8217;s creates an environment out of a directionless evolution. That does not mean that it will not move forward; it only separates the connotation of good from the act of moving forward. Well&#8217;s novel is a statement against the idea of a standard to which the world is progressing, or ought to progress. It is a critique on the idea of striving toward a global anything, be it German Christianity or post-rebellion-peace. I will reference selections from Robert Markley&#8217;s <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Dying Planet: Mars in Science and the Imagination</span>, to contextualize features of Well&#8217;s argument, as well as draw from articles about evolution and the difference between anthropocentrism vs. ecocentrism. Here are  few potential sources to contextualize the argument:

  1. Buell, Lawrence. _The Future of Environmental Criticism: Environmental Crisis and Literary Imagination_. Malden: Blackwell Pub., 2005. Print.
  2. Kolb, Daniel. “Kant, Teleology, and Evolution”. _Synthese_ 91.1/2 (1992): 9–28. Web&#8230;
  3. Hiltner, Kevin. &#8220;The Discourses of Nature.&#8221; _Ecocriticism: The Essential Reader_. New York: Routledge, 2025. 268-277. Print.
  4. <div id="copy-target-123069040" class="bibliography-item-copy-text content col-md-12">
      Markley, Robert. &#8220;&#8221;Different Beyond the Most Bizarre Imaginings of Nightmare&#8221;: Mars in Science Fiction, 1880-1913.&#8221; <i>Dying Planet: Mars in Science and the Imagination</i>. Durham: Duke UP, 2005. 115-149. Print. <small></small>
    </div>

  5. &#8220;Ecology and Man: A Viewpoint.&#8221; _Ecocriticism: The Essential Reader_. Ed. Kevin Hiltner. New York: Routledge, 2025. 62-69. Print.

These are tentative, and I&#8217;ll likely find more articles that speak more about <span style="text-decoration: underline;">War of the Worlds</span> specifically, but these are few hypothetical sources. I&#8217;ll also probably reference the ones that surround the Markely in the paper early on before getting into close reading analysis.