---
id: 419
title: Blob ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
date: 2015-10-01T09:35:55+00:00
author: Garrett
layout: post
guid: http://lindsaythomas.net/engl3560/?p=419
permalink: '/2015/10/01/blob-%c2%af_%e3%83%84_%c2%af/'
categories:
  - Blog 5
tags:
  - ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
---
I think a telling descriptor of my first post is the form of my post. It is just sort one big blob of an entry. My ideas were fine, in fact I actually really like where my post ended, but that’s also part of the problem with it: it focused more on where it ended than anything.

I purposely trued to structure my post a little bit like an arrow. But at the same time, maybe not necessarily. I wanted to give the post direction, rather than making it a loop. With a loop, there is direction, but it ends up in the same place it started so it almost seems a bit boring. This is one thing that Graham hits on a bit with his discussion of surprise. So an essay should be a bit like an arrow, because an arrow has a definite location. Mine was a bit like leading someone blind-folded into a new place. It had direction, but I didn’t get into my main points, where I actually wanted to be, until the last few sentences.

It wasn’t all that structured. And to be totally honest, I sat down with the story and read the story and the inconsistency that I wrote about jumped out at me, and I just wrote the post. I didn’t put too much thought into the form, the organization, I just wrote the post in one sitting and then what became of it was a one-sitting, here-is-everything-in-a-blob sort of feel. I focused too much on Le Guin’s hand tipping and forgot to tip my own.

So if I were to do that post again, I don’t know syntactically or thematically what all I would change. But on the level of structure and organization I think my post would have a nice makeover. The goal of close reading is to look at a passage, a work, some size of literature and try to expose the way it all works. As vague as that it is, what I mean, by way of example, is that we look at a passage from a novel, acknowledge that it must have a consistency with the rest of the work, then try to find the things that link it to the rest of the work. For poetry, it may entail looking at the form of the poem or the rhyme scheme. For a novel it may entail looking at how a specific character is described in relation to the rest of the characters. Then, after having spent such time, we relate the ideas to the rest of the work, not to the world. These consistencies (or inconsistencies in many cases) do not exist in the world as a whole, they exist in the work and we are not trying to make some claim about the world, we are making a claim about the work. So close reading, in short is essential to the process of understanding what the author is trying to convey. It just sometimes needs more structure than a blob.